Re: LT16129
    Classically accelerating solenoidal wave packets in two dimensions
    by Argha Mondal, Yishuai Xu, L. Andrew Wray, et al.

Dear Dr. Rebic,

Thank you for forwarding the referee reports for our manuscript.
We believe that we can respond effectively to the Referees' 
comments and have revised our manuscript accordingly.
We would like to resubmit this work for consideration in
Physical Review Letters.

We have provided a red-lined version of the manuscript that
identifies the specific changes we have made.
The most significant of these are the
addition of two new references and a Supplementary video

Our point-by-point responses to the Referees follow.

With best regards,
Argha Mondal, Yishuai Xu, Andrew Wray and David Grier

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee A -- LT16129/Mondal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this manuscript, the authors theoretically and experimentally
demonstrate a self-rotating wave-packet, by virtue of proper
overlapping of several Bessel wave-packets. However, such an approach
to generate radially self-accelerating wavepackets has been studied in
C. Vetter, et al, Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 183901 (2014). Therefore, I do
not think the work in this manuscript is significant enough for
publication on Physical Review Letters.

RESPONSE: The experimental study of superposed Bessel beams
described in Vetter (2014) reproduces the earlier experimental study by
Lee, Roichman and Grier, Optics Express 18, 6988 (2010),
which we cite.  Vetter's interpretation of these superpositions as radially
accelerating states is based on a fundamental misconception that
we correct in the present manuscript.

Our manuscript provides four principal insights:
(a) We point out that not all rotating states are classically accelerating
in the sense identified by Berry and Balazs (1979).
(b) We quantitatively explain the origin of the confined states' acceleration,
which arises from the wavepacket's interaction with the confining potential.
(c) We furthermore explain that unconfined states of the kind presented
by Vetter (2014) do not accelerate at all, nor do they
even rotate.  Instead, they undergo uniform translation.
This outcome was surprising to us, and corrects
the misinterpretation in Vetter (2014).
(d) Having resolved the apparent contradiction of Ehrenfest's
theorem, we then draw attention to a discrepancy between
the quantum mechanical and classical angular momentum carried
by these states. We present this as an outstanding challenge
to the community.

We have added a references to Vetter (2014) together with a brief
explanation of its error and the resolution.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee B -- LT16129/Mondal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This is an interesting and very well written paper. In their
presentation, the authors advance an optical analogy to the problem of
circular motion of a particle in the force-free region of a circular
box. They used this analogy to present yet another "apparent
violation" of the Ehrenfest theorem.

1. The misuse of different features of a wavepacket instead of its center
of mass has been pointed out before. 

RESPONSE: We are not aware of a previous reference that
demonstrates the uniform translation of nominally
accelerating states.  The most highly cited references on Airy
beams either suggest that unconfined beams accelerate
[Besieris and Shaarawi, Optics Lett. 32, 2447 (2007)]
or suggest that the center of mass is stationary
in the laboratory frame [Siviloglou (2007)].
Neither of these proposals is entirely incorrect.

2. The superposition of Bessel beams, the optical realization 
of solenoidal beams and their non-diffractive features 
has also been amply discussed in the literature.
Perhaps a better survey or prior works could be
appropriate.

RESPONSE: We have added citations to Paterson (1996) and
Vetter (2014), the first of which may be the earliest
demonstration of rotating superpositions
of Bessel beams and the second of which draws attention
to their apparent radial acceleration.

3. Nevertheless, even though in this context the description
of the authors' interpretation is clear and straightforward, they
could have made a better case for their present scope. What do we
learn from this analogy?

RESPONSE: Being able to visualize experimental realizations
of nominally accelerating states makes clear that this
phenomenon has more than academic interest.  The optical
analogs themselves have attracted widespread attention
for their roles in communication, sensing and micromanipulation.
Drawing the analogy therefore broadens the community that
will benefit from an explanation of the true nature of these
states.

4. Is this analogy really describing a wave packet in 2D?

RESPONSE: The analogy between two-dimensional quantum
mechanical wave packets and paraxial light waves is
well established, for example in Siviloglou (2007).
The beams presented in this manuscript are well within the 
paraxial limit, and thus are well described by scalar diffraction theory.
The experimental realizations of freely propagating optical solenoids
therefore are good analogies for unconfined quantum wave packets
evolving from a truncated initial state.

5. What is it remarkable about the truncated solenoidal
modes not accelerating a la Balasz and Berry?

RESPONSE: Berry and Balazs describe non-truncated Airy
modes that manifest accelerating center of mass motion,
which would conflict with Eherenfest's theorem if the states
were normalizable, and thus physically meaningful.
We demonstrate that confined solenoidal states can be realized
and that some of them accelerate in the sense identified
by Berry and Balazs.  In this case, however, we show that 
the acceleration can be ascribed to forces exerted by the boundary.

Confusion has arisen regarding the nature of the freely propagating
states once the confining boundary is removed.  As our experimental
realizations illustrate, these states also appear to accelerate,
much like their confined counterparts.  We demonstrate, however,
that these states' small amount of diffraction is precisely
what is required to transform their acceleration into uniform
translation.  This is now emphasized in the concluding paragraph.

The role of diffraction in nominally accelerating modes
appears not to have been presented previously, and resolves
the apparent Ehrenfest violation in all related systems.
We have added a supplemental video that illustrates 
how diffraction affects both optical and
quantum-mechanical realizations.
Moreover, our manuscript explains that the truncated states
continue to have a non-zero classical angular momentum 
that differs from the quantum mechanical value. 

As a side note, the integrals in Eqs. (12) and (16) that
establish the confined states' properties are not well known,
even though they arise naturally in the study of waveguide modes.
These also may be of technical interest to specialists.

5. Would a vectorial description of the superposition change anything?

RESPONSE: The short answer is that vector solenoidal waves
display all of the same qualitative behavior as their scalar
counterparts: vector solenoidal modes accelerate when confined, and
diffract into translating states when not confined.  We have verified
this analytically for the tractable case of radially-polarized
TE modes.  In this case, the two-beam superposition resembles
the well-localized four-beam scalar superposition presented in
Fig. 2(c).  A discussion of vector solenoidal waves is beyond
the scope of the present manuscript and will be presented
elsewhere.

6. I could recommend publication if these issues are properly resolved.